Topic: Game companies - Involvement of programmers in the design process

This is a question basically to programmers with experience working in game companies.

How common is it that game coders participate in the design process of the game? Both gameplay design, and content design. 
Do you participate in related meetings and such, or do you have some other (formal/informal) opportunities to sound your 
opinions of game features / levels / even story, and for them to be actually considered?

Another question, not completely unrelated - is it possible for a programmer with interest in the field to move from the 
technical job to a gameplay design related job (or do both in smaller companies)? Does that happen?

A Reply from other user ...

Technical designer - These individuals straddle design and programming. Often times, the ones I've encountered have 
started off as programmers and then heavily migrated to design. Responsibilities often involve working closely with both 
the design team and programming team to build technically challenging design elements.

Gameplay programmer - I've been a gameplay programmer on a triple-A FPS. Typically, our responsibilities involve 
translating a designer's dreams into realities. Depending on the studio, you can be given a great deal of latitude in how 
your implementation functions and what if offers the designer. I've seen more than one gameplay programmer's initial 
values be used in the shipped product. Additionally, being a gameplay programmer gives you a close dialogue with the 
design team, potentially allow you to comment or influence their designs.

Other programmers - Engine programmers and tools programmers typically have very little sway in any design decisions 
beyond "can it be done". Though, this depends on the studio. My current studio (a social/casual house) expects everyone to
provide input for design, including all programmers.

Reflection
This will help me in choosing of what type of work that I will be with. For me, I want to be a programmer someday. This
topic will help me understand of the different types of programmer now a days in our generation. I'm not a good artist
that's why I want to be a programmer. Thus, I need to understand first different types of programmers and choose one of my
choice and it will be my specialty someday. :)